>>> THERE ARE STILL A NUMBER OF
>>> THERE ARE STILL A NUMBER OF POTENTIAL PRESIDENTIAL
POTENTIAL PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES CONSIDERING ENTERING
CANDIDATES CONSIDERING ENTERING THE DEMOCRATIC RACE INCLUDING
THE DEMOCRATIC RACE INCLUDING JOE BIDEN STILL MULLING OVER HIS
JOE BIDEN STILL MULLING OVER HIS DECISION AND BETO O’ROURKE WHO
DECISION AND BETO O’ROURKE WHO WILL HAVE AN ANNOUNCEMENT SOON
WILL HAVE AN ANNOUNCEMENT SOON AND TODAY STACEY ABRAMS SAID
AND TODAY STACEY ABRAMS SAID THAT A 2020 PRESIDENTIAL RUN IS
THAT A 2020 PRESIDENTIAL RUN IS ON THE TABLE.
ON THE TABLE. I HEAR THAT AND I WONDER WHAT
I HEAR THAT AND I WONDER WHAT THE PERIOD OF CONTEMPLATION
THE PERIOD OF CONTEMPLATION LOOKS LIKE AND HOW SOMEONE MAKES
LOOKS LIKE AND HOW SOMEONE MAKES THE DECISION TO RUN FOR
THE DECISION TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. BECAUSE NOT EVERYBODY DECIDES TO
BECAUSE NOT EVERYBODY DECIDES TO DO IT LIKE FOR INSTANCE SHERROD
DO IT LIKE FOR INSTANCE SHERROD BROWN WHO TOURED THE COUNTRY AND
BROWN WHO TOURED THE COUNTRY AND THEN ANNOUNCED HE WOULD NOT RUN
THEN ANNOUNCED HE WOULD NOT RUN LAST WEEK.
LAST WEEK. HOW DID HE MAKE THAT DECISION?
HOW DID HE MAKE THAT DECISION? WELL, DEMOCRATIC SENATOR SHERROD
WELL, DEMOCRATIC SENATOR SHERROD BROWN OF OHIO JOINS ME NOW.
BROWN OF OHIO JOINS ME NOW. SENATOR, I’M REALLY CURIOUS
SENATOR, I’M REALLY CURIOUS ABOUT THIS -- WHAT GOES INTO THE
ABOUT THIS -- WHAT GOES INTO THE CALCULATION, BECAUSE YOU
CALCULATION, BECAUSE YOU CONSTANTLY HEAR REPORTS ABOUT
CONSTANTLY HEAR REPORTS ABOUT PEOPLE, THEY ARE TALKING TO
PEOPLE, THEY ARE TALKING TO ADVISERS AND FUNDRAISERS AND
ADVISERS AND FUNDRAISERS AND TALKING TO PEOPLE.
TALKING TO PEOPLE. WHAT IS IN YOUR HEAD AND WHAT
WHAT IS IN YOUR HEAD AND WHAT DID YOU COME TO BELIEVE THROUGH
DID YOU COME TO BELIEVE THROUGH THE PROCESS THAT LED TO YOUR
THE PROCESS THAT LED TO YOUR DECISION?
DECISION? >> WELL AS YOU KNOW, CHRIS, I
>> WELL AS YOU KNOW, CHRIS, I HAVEN’T HAD A LIFE LONG DREAM TO
HAVEN’T HAD A LIFE LONG DREAM TO BE PRESIDENT.
BE PRESIDENT. I’VE KNOWN YOU A LONG TIME AND
I’VE KNOWN YOU A LONG TIME AND YOU’VE NEVER HEARD ME -- NOBODY
YOU’VE NEVER HEARD ME -- NOBODY THAT I KNOW HAS HEARD ME TALK
THAT I KNOW HAS HEARD ME TALK ABOUT AS SOMETHING I WANTED TO
ABOUT AS SOMETHING I WANTED TO DO AT SOME POINT IN MY LIFE AND
DO AT SOME POINT IN MY LIFE AND THAT BEGAN TO CHANGE IN NOVEMBER
THAT BEGAN TO CHANGE IN NOVEMBER OR DECEMBER WHEN I SAW THAT
OR DECEMBER WHEN I SAW THAT JUST -- I JUST THOUGHT DEMOCRATS
JUST -- I JUST THOUGHT DEMOCRATS WEREN’T TALKING TO WORKERS
WEREN’T TALKING TO WORKERS ENOUGH AND I DON’T THINK WE WIN
ENOUGH AND I DON’T THINK WE WIN IN THE SOUTH OR THE MOUNTAIN
IN THE SOUTH OR THE MOUNTAIN WEST OR THE MIDWEST IF WE DON’T
WEST OR THE MIDWEST IF WE DON’T TALK TO WORKERS BETTER AND
TALK TO WORKERS BETTER AND LISTEN TO WORKERS BETTER AND
LISTEN TO WORKERS BETTER AND WORKERS OF ALL RACES AND I
WORKERS OF ALL RACES AND I ANNOUNCED ON THIS SHOW, ON THE
ANNOUNCED ON THIS SHOW, ON THE CHRIS HAYES SHOW, A COUPLE OF
CHRIS HAYES SHOW, A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO OUR DIGNITY OF WORK
MONTHS AGO OUR DIGNITY OF WORK TOUR AND I UNDERLINE LISTENING
TOUR AND I UNDERLINE LISTENING BECAUSE WE SPEND TIME IN EACH OF
BECAUSE WE SPEND TIME IN EACH OF THE FOUR EARLY STATES, NEW
THE FOUR EARLY STATES, NEW HAMPSHIRE, IOWA, AND SOUTH
HAMPSHIRE, IOWA, AND SOUTH CAROLINA AND NEVADA LISTENING TO
CAROLINA AND NEVADA LISTENING TO PEOPLE AND THIS WHOLE IDEA OF
PEOPLE AND THIS WHOLE IDEA OF THE DIGNITY OF WORK, WE WANTED
THE DIGNITY OF WORK, WE WANTED THIS TO BECOME THE NARRATIVE FOR
THIS TO BECOME THE NARRATIVE FOR OTHER CANDIDATES AND I CONSIDER
OTHER CANDIDATES AND I CONSIDER IT A SELECT IN -- CONSIDER IT A
IT A SELECT IN -- CONSIDER IT A VICTORY.
VICTORY. IF YOU LOVE FOR YOUR COUNTRY YOU
IF YOU LOVE FOR YOUR COUNTRY YOU FIGHT FOR THE PEOPLE THAT MAKE
FIGHT FOR THE PEOPLE THAT MAKE IT WORK AND I’VE CHOSE TONE DO
IT WORK AND I’VE CHOSE TONE DO THAT IN THE SENATE.
THAT IN THE SENATE. >> BUT WHY?
>> BUT WHY? >> I THINK I COULD HAVE A LOUD
>> I THINK I COULD HAVE A LOUD VOICE THERE.
VOICE THERE. >> AT SOME POINT YOU WERE
>> AT SOME POINT YOU WERE CONSIDERING NOT DOING THAT.
CONSIDERING NOT DOING THAT. THE QUESTION IS DO YOU DRAW UP A
THE QUESTION IS DO YOU DRAW UP A SPREADSHEET OR MAKES A PROS AND
SPREADSHEET OR MAKES A PROS AND CONS LIST?
CONS LIST? WHAT IS THE THING THAT TIPS ONE
WHAT IS THE THING THAT TIPS ONE OVER WHEN MAKING A MONUMENTAL
OVER WHEN MAKING A MONUMENTAL DECISION.
DECISION. >> I THINK IT IS THE QUESTION OF
>> I THINK IT IS THE QUESTION OF WHATRY WILLING TO GO THROUGH,
WHATRY WILLING TO GO THROUGH, WHAT ARE YOU WILLING TO PUT YOUR
WHAT ARE YOU WILLING TO PUT YOUR FAMILY THROUGH.
FAMILY THROUGH. I THINK THAT -- SORT OF THE
I THINK THAT -- SORT OF THE JOYFUL WAY I TRY TO DO MY JOB IN
JOYFUL WAY I TRY TO DO MY JOB IN THE SENATE, I DIDN’T FEEL THAT I
THE SENATE, I DIDN’T FEEL THAT I COULD DO THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE
COULD DO THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE QUITE THE SAME WAY AND BE
QUITE THE SAME WAY AND BE EFFECTIVE.
EFFECTIVE. AND SO THE DECISION WAS -- I
AND SO THE DECISION WAS -- I KNOW EVERYBODY GETS TO IT
KNOW EVERYBODY GETS TO IT DIFFERENTLY.
DIFFERENTLY. I THINK IT IS I DON’T LONG TO
I THINK IT IS I DON’T LONG TO HAVE THIS HUGE DESIRE TO BE
HAVE THIS HUGE DESIRE TO BE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. I LOVE MY JOB IN THE SENATE.
I LOVE MY JOB IN THE SENATE. I THINK I’M EFFECTIVE AND OUR
I THINK I’M EFFECTIVE AND OUR DIGNITY OF WORK NARRATIVE
DIGNITY OF WORK NARRATIVE BECAUSE WE STARTED ON THIS SHOW
BECAUSE WE STARTED ON THIS SHOW HAS BECOME A MUCH BIGGER THING
HAS BECOME A MUCH BIGGER THING THAN IT WOULD HAVE BEEN.
THAN IT WOULD HAVE BEEN. SO I -- I JUST THINK I’M READY
SO I -- I JUST THINK I’M READY TO CONTINUE TO DO THIS IN THE
TO CONTINUE TO DO THIS IN THE SENATE.
SENATE. >> WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THAT, I
>> WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THAT, I WONDER, WAS THERE PRESSURE --
WONDER, WAS THERE PRESSURE -- YOU WON THIS RACE -- YOU WERE
YOU WON THIS RACE -- YOU WERE JUST RE-ELECTED IN OHIO AND PART
JUST RE-ELECTED IN OHIO AND PART OF THE PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT YOU
OF THE PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT YOU AS A POSSIBLE PRESIDENTIAL
AS A POSSIBLE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BECAUSE YOU HAVE THIS
CANDIDATE BECAUSE YOU HAVE THIS RECORD TO BE A FAIRLY LIBERAL
RECORD TO BE A FAIRLY LIBERAL SENATE IF YOU LOOK AT VOTING
SENATE IF YOU LOOK AT VOTING RECORDS IN A CASE THAT HAS
RECORDS IN A CASE THAT HAS TRENDED CONSERVATIVE AND RED.
TRENDED CONSERVATIVE AND RED. AND YOU JUST GOT RE-ELECTED.
AND YOU JUST GOT RE-ELECTED. YOU CLEARLY HAVE A CONNECTION
YOU CLEARLY HAVE A CONNECTION WITH THE STATE AND ABLE TO
WITH THE STATE AND ABLE TO MESSAGE YOUR POLITICS AND
MESSAGE YOUR POLITICS AND CONNECT TO VOTERS THERE.
CONNECT TO VOTERS THERE. WERE YOU GET ANY PUSHBACK FROM
WERE YOU GET ANY PUSHBACK FROM CHUCK SCHUMER, IF YOU WOULD WIN
CHUCK SCHUMER, IF YOU WOULD WIN THIS THING WE WOULD BE DOWN A
THIS THING WE WOULD BE DOWN A SEAT IN OHIO AND WE WOULD HAVE A
SEAT IN OHIO AND WE WOULD HAVE A HARD TIME REPLACING BECAUSE THE
HARD TIME REPLACING BECAUSE THE GOVERNOR WOULD APPOINT YOUR
GOVERNOR WOULD APPOINT YOUR SUCCESSOR.
SUCCESSOR. >> NO.
>> NO. I HEARD THAT FROM SOMEBODY.
I HEARD THAT FROM SOMEBODY. I WAS QUESTIONED ABOUT IT BY
I WAS QUESTIONED ABOUT IT BY MEDIA BUT NOBODY SAID --
MEDIA BUT NOBODY SAID -- INCLUDING PEOPLE IN OHIO AND
INCLUDING PEOPLE IN OHIO AND SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP,
SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP, NOBODY SAID YOU CAN’T DO THIS.
NOBODY SAID YOU CAN’T DO THIS. PARTLY BECAUSE WE WOULD BE GLAD
PARTLY BECAUSE WE WOULD BE GLAD IN THIS TIME TO TRADE A SENATE
IN THIS TIME TO TRADE A SENATE SEED FOR THE PRESIDENCY.
SEED FOR THE PRESIDENCY. AND I THINK THAT THERE IS A
AND I THINK THAT THERE IS A RECOGNITION THAT IF I WERE THE
RECOGNITION THAT IF I WERE THE NOMINEE, I WOULD HAVE PERHAPS
NOMINEE, I WOULD HAVE PERHAPS THE BEST CHANCE TO BEAT TRUMP.
THE BEST CHANCE TO BEAT TRUMP. BUT I THINK THAT IF THIS DIGNITY
BUT I THINK THAT IF THIS DIGNITY OF WORK THEME -- I WANT
OF WORK THEME -- I WANT PEOPLE -- I WANT OUR CANDIDATES
PEOPLE -- I WANT OUR CANDIDATES TO THINK ABOUT THE GENERAL
TO THINK ABOUT THE GENERAL ELECTION AND HOW YOU’RE GOING TO
ELECTION AND HOW YOU’RE GOING TO WIN THE GENERAL ELECTION AND IF
WIN THE GENERAL ELECTION AND IF THEY START TALKING TO WORKERS,
THEY START TALKING TO WORKERS, OF COURSE WE PLAYED A PRO -- A
OF COURSE WE PLAYED A PRO -- A PROGRESSIVE BASE AND AGAINST
PROGRESSIVE BASE AND AGAINST NAFTA AND THE BANKRUPTCY BILL
NAFTA AND THE BANKRUPTCY BILL AND A WHOLE BUNCH OF ISSUES AS A
AND A WHOLE BUNCH OF ISSUES AS A PROGRESSIVE BUT WE HAVE TO TALK
PROGRESSIVE BUT WE HAVE TO TALK TO WORKERS.
TO WORKERS. IF WE DO TARKSHAT, I PREDICT WHO
IF WE DO TARKSHAT, I PREDICT WHO RAISES HIS OR HER HAND ON
RAISES HIS OR HER HAND ON JANUARY 20th, 20 -- WHOEVER YEAR
JANUARY 20th, 20 -- WHOEVER YEAR IT WOULD BE, 2021, THEY WILL
IT WOULD BE, 2021, THEY WILL TALK ABOUT THE DIGNITY OF WORK
TALK ABOUT THE DIGNITY OF WORK IN HIS OR HER INAUGURAL SPEECH.
IN HIS OR HER INAUGURAL SPEECH. >> SHARPEN THAT.
>> SHARPEN THAT. YOU ARE TRYING TO SAY, LOOK,
YOU ARE TRYING TO SAY, LOOK, DEMOCRATS NEED TO BE THINKING
DEMOCRATS NEED TO BE THINKING ABOUT A WAY TO TALK TO VOTERS
ABOUT A WAY TO TALK TO VOTERS BROADLY AND APPEAL BROADLY AND
BROADLY AND APPEAL BROADLY AND YOU ARE AN EXPERIENCE RUNNING IN
YOU ARE AN EXPERIENCE RUNNING IN OHIO WHERE THERE IS A BUNCH OF
OHIO WHERE THERE IS A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT CONSTITUENTS AND AS
DIFFERENT CONSTITUENTS AND AS OPPOSED TO WHAT IS THE THING YOU
OPPOSED TO WHAT IS THE THING YOU ARE WORRIED THE FIELD HAS BEEN
ARE WORRIED THE FIELD HAS BEEN DOING OR IS GOING TO DO THAT
DOING OR IS GOING TO DO THAT YOU’RE TRYING TO PROVIDE AN
YOU’RE TRYING TO PROVIDE AN ANTIDOTE TO THAT IS BAD.
ANTIDOTE TO THAT IS BAD. >> I DON’T SAY IT IS BAD.
>> I DON’T SAY IT IS BAD. IT MIGHT BECOME THAT.
IT MIGHT BECOME THAT. I DON’T THINK THAT OUR
I DON’T THINK THAT OUR CANDIDATES ARE THINKING OF THE
CANDIDATES ARE THINKING OF THE GENERAL ELECTION.
GENERAL ELECTION. I THINK THAT THERE IS A BIT OF
I THINK THAT THERE IS A BIT OF ONE BIRD FLIES OFF THE TELEPHONE
ONE BIRD FLIES OFF THE TELEPHONE WIRE AND FIVE MORE BIRDS FLY OFF
WIRE AND FIVE MORE BIRDS FLY OFF THE WIRE AND I JUST THINK THERE
THE WIRE AND I JUST THINK THERE IS THAT.
IS THAT. AND I JUST WANT CANDIDATES TO
AND I JUST WANT CANDIDATES TO THINK ABOUT THEMSELVES AND MOVE
THINK ABOUT THEMSELVES AND MOVE THE COUNTRY FORWARD AND THINK
THE COUNTRY FORWARD AND THINK ABOUT THE GENERAL ELECTION, EVEN
ABOUT THE GENERAL ELECTION, EVEN THOUGH I HAVE A LIFETIME EFFORT
THOUGH I HAVE A LIFETIME EFFORT FROM THE NRA, I GET GUN OWNERS
FROM THE NRA, I GET GUN OWNERS VOTES IN ZANESVILLE AND
VOTES IN ZANESVILLE AND NANCEVILLE AND LYME, OHIO,
NANCEVILLE AND LYME, OHIO, BECAUSE I TALK ABOUT KEEPING
BECAUSE I TALK ABOUT KEEPING HEALTH CARE COSTS DOWN AND GOING
HEALTH CARE COSTS DOWN AND GOING AFTER THE DRUG COMPANIES AND HOW
AFTER THE DRUG COMPANIES AND HOW DO YOU SEND YOUR KID TO
DO YOU SEND YOUR KID TO COMMUNITY COLLEGES TO ZANE STATE
COMMUNITY COLLEGES TO ZANE STATE OR ROAD STATE AND HOW DO YOU DO
OR ROAD STATE AND HOW DO YOU DO THAT AND IT REALLY IS -- IT
THAT AND IT REALLY IS -- IT IS -- THIS TOUR WE DID REALLY
IS -- THIS TOUR WE DID REALLY WAS A LISTENING TOUR.
WAS A LISTENING TOUR. I WASN’T TRYING TO GET THE
I WASN’T TRYING TO GET THE BIGGEST CROWD.
BIGGEST CROWD. I WAS LISTENING TO PEOPLE AND
I WAS LISTENING TO PEOPLE AND LEARNED STUFF.
LEARNED STUFF. ONE WOMAN IN LACONIA, NEW
ONE WOMAN IN LACONIA, NEW HAMPSHIRE, SAID YOU HAVE TO RUN
HAMPSHIRE, SAID YOU HAVE TO RUN A CHILDCARE FACILITY FOR YEARS,
A CHILDCARE FACILITY FOR YEARS, SAID YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
SAID YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT CHILDCARE A PUBLIC GOOD AND WE
CHILDCARE A PUBLIC GOOD AND WE INVEST IN TRANSPORTATION AND
INVEST IN TRANSPORTATION AND PUBLIC PARKS AND WE NEED TO
PUBLIC PARKS AND WE NEED TO INVEST IN CHILDCARE.
INVEST IN CHILDCARE. AND THE IRONY OF CHILDCARE IS
AND THE IRONY OF CHILDCARE IS PEOPLE CAN’T AFFORD IT AND THE
PEOPLE CAN’T AFFORD IT AND THE WORKERS THAT PROVIDE CAN’T MAKE